# RCA Studio II

## Multicart Hardware
The cartridge uses a 512k flash chip (SST39SF040) to provide 128 selectable 4k slots to the RCA Studio II Console. The cartridge has a latch circuit for the higher address lines. The original version of the multicart had a dual retriggerable monostable multi-vibrator (courtesy of Ed Keefe) to ‘repair’ the TPA line, which is crippled on most console cartridge ports. A jumper selects whether the cartridge generates this signal (bridge the top two pins of the jumper, default) or whether it uses the one generated by the console (bottom two pins). The latter is needed for some older versions of the Studio II and for the color clones.

The newer version (v5) of the multicart no longer needs the patch circuit: if mixes in the /MRD signal to generate working CE and OE for the EEPROM to work correctly 

A switch selects whether $000-$3FF is addressable on the cartridge. This will bypass the console's roms/kernels so that Chip-8 games or alternative kernels can be used.

## Single cart Hardware
This is very similar to the multicart design, apart from the slot selection rotary encoders. And it uses a much smaller eprom: 2716 or 2732 - this needs to be set via a jumper. A switch (or jumper) can determine whether the console uses $000-$3ff from the cartridge or from the console. It allows different kernels to be run from the cart (e.g. Chip-8 games).

## Updating Multicart
If new ROMs become available, the flash memory on the cartridge can be updated to include these. Note that the entire image (512k) will probably need to be rewritten to the chip. This requires a programmer that supports the 39SF040 flash memory chip, which should be most devices. Since the chip is a PLCC32 package, an adapter is probably needed. Check the AtariAge forums for news and help if needed.

### SLOT STRUCTURE (4096 bytes)
```
$xy000-$xy3FF	KERNEL
$xy400-$xy7FF	Low ROM area
$xy800-$xyBFF	[not used by cart - console RAM]
$xyC00-$xyFFF	High ROM area

where	x = high bank select (MSB)
	    y = low bank select (LSB)
```

See the readme in the eeprom directory for more details on how the eeprom image can be 'compiled'.

## CARTRIDGE SLOT
Since the cartridge slot is unprotected on this 40 year old console, corrosion of the contacts is very likely. This will hamper correct operation of the cartridge and is a likely source of problems/crashes you may experience. If that’s the case, please ensure that the cartridge slot pins on the back row are clean. Use contact cleaner or similar if necessary.
